This file is for random notes and specific coding tasks that need to be done
to meet various goals. This includes Roadmap items as well as fixing bugs.
List bug tracker number if any. This should be considered a supplement to
laidout/src/LEFT---OFF, which has a lot more laxkit related issues in it.

When an item is satisfied, put it in the DONE section at bottom of file.
Those are purged with each release.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
need more adaptable styling
window icon management, need to be able to set for any window on the fly

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

implement ibus support for better input methods

further implementation needed:
    ellipseinterface.h
    measureinterface.h
    panelinterface.h
    showkeysinterface.h
    pointwarpinterface.h
    linesinterface.h
    bezinterface*

    tagcloudwindow.cc
    laximages-vector.cc
    commit.cc
    laxwii.cc (deprecate?)
    DONE fileorstr.cc fileorstr.h  <- in IOBuffer
    DONE json <-> Attribute

    implement an event viewer in laxinput

TO IMPLEMENT or drastically improve:
  tableframe.o
  colorselector.o
  printdialog.o
  scrolledwindow <- debug, very clunky
  interfacewindow

PaletteWindow:
  hide header
  special colors
  edit palette
  load/save controls
  palette dir management
  palette list select

DateSelector needs easy way to select current date

LineEdit:
  should be able to setcurpos at any time, even without window set.. seems to not quite work at the moment

shortcut html output needs to make & -> &amp;, etc
shortcut needs mode based shortcuts implemented.. just a stub right now
shortcuts, area info? embed info?

overwrite box in filedialog:
  in overwrite box, provide name options
  OR in file dialog, show yellow if overwriting, press down to pop up list of options

     file1.jpg exists!

     [Overwrite][cancel]

     v Suggestions:
        file2.jpg
        file1-1.jpg
        file (copy).jpg
        file COPY.jpg
          [Use instead]

merge Laxkit and LaxFiles?? makes things simpler

curvewindow:
    finish side edits
    implement full bez?
    histogram

scrollers in interfs.cc example frelled

dump_out_atts needed for:
  DONE Gradient
  DONE Image
  Path
  Patch
  ColorPatch
  Caption

dump_out(-1) on windows should do dump_out_atts(), then output:
   name1  #value
   name2  #value, wrapping to current indent at given column width
   ---> maybe have layout hints in Attribute::atttype?

MouseEvent needs expandable properties, such as depth or finger info

mesbar have click-destroys so undragged mouse will destroy window.. for overlay messages

usethesescrollers panner problem??

dndaware should be default

document singleton manager creators:
  resourcemanager
  shortcutmanager
  interfacemanager
  displayer manager
  iconmanager
  undomanager
  imagemanager
  unitmanager
  colormanager

for dateselector, grab whole translated names, then the first few chars of that, rather than translate abreviations

splitwindow: cursor gets stuck on wrong cursor when entering children

menuselector center with icons not placing correctly

drag out a gradient in diagonal direction, has preview image problems
drag out in negative direction, creates way off artifacts

make sure button and subclass defines are consistent

hierarchy changes are selected on Root window... special function at app level to accept such messages??
could be same function as event catch all for propagated events.

objectinterface:
 SOMEDATA_KEEP_1_TO_1  or SOMEDATA_KEEP_ASPECT

patch controls: selecting a control point should highlight what segments are affected by changing it
while moving control points should do recursive draw (faster) then update preview on mouse up
DONE not drawing boundaries correctly
DONE patch decorations has mystery render error, far out lines with some combination of showdecs

timer in popup menu causing problems...

multidevice:
 imageinterface
 pathinterface
 patches
 gradients
 viewport

need a lock shaped cursor, and a circle crossed out shape.. How to make custom cursors????

hover arrows on item selectors not showing up

up/down key should not allow being on separators

Menubutton downarrow style screws up, because considers down arrow to be a graphic in place of image, not in addition

Button down grabs device, but enter and exit still leaks through, so button windows get
multiple in events...

remove const from LaxMouse/LaxKeyboard... too much const cast stuff? or make mouse shape changing and grabbing anXApp function

xim per keyboard? related: not sure if dead keys are working anymore...

rulerwindow: should be able to use panner data? displayer data??

pointer grabs, ie for panpopup

comply with: http://standards.freedesktop.org/wm-spec/wm-spec-1.3.html
comply with net_wm_ping --> needs testing

thumbnail spec says you are supposed to add in fields!!

what is behavior supposed to be on sync() if is window??

debug rowframe, tabframe, etc integration..

buttons should have modifier specific icons?



for color palettes, and other loadable things that might need translation, maybe some standard?
name Blah
  translations
    en Blaba
    fr Blaeahe
    be Blahsenfeffer

TODO RIGHT NOW:
fluid-esque code generation tool
start thinking about portability, particularly to osx, make a non-gnu file
 to provide gnu things like getline() and get_current_dir_name() that are not provided on,
 for instance, bsd-ish osx..

TO ENHANCE:
ini file to attribute converter
Could put all the pure math stuff in LaxMath namespace?
 this includes transformmath, vectors, and interfaces/bezier math
Could put strmanip.cc/.h in LaxStr namespace.

gotta make a compiler aid:
 make a laxkit.pc for pkg-config
 lax-config --cppflags --ldflags --libs --ldstaticflags --version --help --use* --cpp
			--make-laxrc <-- dump a generic laxrc to stdout with lots of comments to say how to modify it.

Ultimately need to have pictures of the various widgets in the docs..




FEATURE WISHING:
 gl support
 thread safety
 (in progress) drag n drop


--Thoughts on themes--
If more than just simple colors were to be changed, what would be required? seems
like each refresh of every function would have to be externally redefinable, which
would suck.. maybe just stick to simple color changes..
Otherwise would have to have Laxkit namespace classes use a similar objectfactory
setup as LaxInterfaces, and the theme modifies the factory to return subclasses
of all the core classes. Bleah!
Alternately, refreshing functions would need to isolate relevant data to pass to arbitrary functions.
Probably more trouble than it's worth.



---WIDGET TODO---
number sliders, like Num: 255 [----------*---]
SliderInputPopup?== list to select from, or type in choice, remember last few typed in choices: 2 lists...
table frames
multirow/col frames
fuller print dialog
font dialog
detail selector/record selector
tree selector
color selection dialog


CLEAN UP:
FileDialog and FilePreviewer
no zoom, viewerwindow but with integers (ScrolledWindow)
SplitWindow
BoxArrange/RowFrame and friends
when a child window is destroyed, sometimes the parent doesn't know it.
  perhaps there could be a built in procedure to keep track of that..

-----overhaul notes:
----------------
----tasks:
work out selecting for events, especially non-X events: man select(), use file descriptors??
  how to break out of select() from random threads?

work out details for a generic event filter,
      which acts on events that have already been processed into EventData objects. This would
      allow using the same mechanism for mouse gesture recognition AND for shortcuts, allowing
      windows to respond only to basic events, rather that catching by redefining all
      the input routines
work out rendering system independent of Xlib, see todo in laxutils.cc
  -> :initX() would need to call function to init default graphics handling
  -> anXApp::DefaultIcon() requires LaxImage? right now hardcoded to imlib
iron out something workable for fontdialog and matrix textout. investigate pango
repair now broken text editor's dealing with fonts with missing glyphs
multiple device implementation:
  -> focus handling should be one focus per keyboard. fix in app->destroywindow()
       research _NET_ACTIVE_WINDOW, rather than WM_TAKE_FOCUS... how does this work for MPX??
  -> Xim stuff per keyboard??
  -> implement device groups per user, rather than default keyb/mouse xlib grouping. Otherwise
       modifier determination is irrational
  -> debug multiscreen



-------------------------------NOTES-----------------------------

        DIALOGS
-------------------------------------
separate dialog_style from win_style in all dialogs? Sometimes too confusing otherwise!!


            EVENTS
-----------------------------------
other kits can connect functions to signals, so when
a window causes a signal to be sent, notification can be sent to
one or more windows, not just to owner. this can be done for any
event.

Connect(ActionFunc, arg, eventype, eventCondition);
Connect(EventReceiver, arg, eventype, eventCondition);

custom event loops to accommodate threaded, and offshoot windows??

before mapping: _NET_WM_WINDOW_TYPE
determine extra wm decorations: _NET_FRAME_EXTENTS


----keyboards---
each window needs an xim_ic. with many keyboards, how does this work??
see anXApp::CreateXInputContext()



window icon/application class?
make sure wm-spec is satisfied
don't ignore multi screen environments




--------------------------------------DONE---------------------------------------
----------------- These are purged with each release ----------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DONE (needs testing) ping protocol
DONE event propagation? (only for mouse and key events)
DONE need to do experiments with XInput to figure out how to get and relay events
DONE onButtonDown(which_button, modifiers, x, y, mouse_id)
DONE onButtonUp  (which_button, modifiers, x, y, mouse_id)
DONE onMouseMove (modifiers, x, y, mouse_id)
DONE Event(EventData *data)
DONE (in base classes anyway) combine DataEvent with ClientEvent, and abstract all events away from Xlib
DONE figure out a sane way to do anXWindow/EventCatcher ref counting,
       so as to pave way for any object to receive events, such as interfaces..
DONE  Remove Atoms from anXWindow user parts. (done except for drag-n-drop)
DONE app->SendEvent(DataEvent*) define an internal file descriptor to select for?? otherwise background threads
      sending generic events will not break out of Select...
     -> using anXApp::bump() and multithreaded X

DONE Multidevice:
  DONE work out tooltip checking for multiple mice!!
  DONE (sort of) XDefineCursor() replacement? how to define cursors for any given window,
      potentially for each device: splitwindow, stackframe.. sort of works,but *** maybe transfer assigning
      of pointer shapes to anXApp so as to preserve the const LaxDevice in mouse events?
  DONE pointer grabs?? such as for popups...
  DONE query mouse
  DONE  anXApp::setfocus(): XSetInputFocus() replacement?? do it in devicemanager?
  DONE-maybe  dialog event screening by device

DONE shortcuts
DONE really do anXWindow reference counting? if so, must revamp destroyqueued, destroykids, etc
DONE work out details of DeviceManager/LaxDevice/Xinput/Xinput2
DONE  how best to integrate XInput2? just assume to use it if available at compile time? yes
DONE  move key down processing from anXWindow to anXApp
DONE  work out and connecting owners to windows -> for now using just single owner, stored as object_id
DONE  remove dependence on non-Xft font things in LaxFont
DONE COLORS in themes
DONE shortcut.o
DONE dateutils, extracting the 1st 3 or 1 letters not utf8 safe!!
DONE viewport with stack is really bad now
DONE  *CONST* EventData()....
DONE defaultlaxfont not being set up properly
DONE treeview.o
DONE should absorb menu out click event
DONE tree view, adding to visibleitems destroys original hierarchy of menu
DONE StackFrame messed up
DONE checkbox: resize should trigger placement update, or recompute each draw
DONE rectinterface normal draw not working
DONE add #ffaaffaa parsing to SimpleColorAttribute()

DONE cairo:
  DONE window sizing is lagging somehow -> seems to be gone in recent unity
  DONE cairo needs to work with:
     --bases:
    DONE messagebar.h -> not autowrapping size correctly, multiline
    DONE button.h
    DONE colorsliders.h -> need to sort out font remapping
    DONE messagebox.h
    DONE checkbox.h
    DONE colorbox.h
    DONE dateselector.h
    DONE lineedit.h
    DONE lineinput.h
    DONE rulerwin.h
    DONE scroller.h
    DONE multilineedit.h
    DONE menubutton.h
    DONE menuselector.h
    DONE iconslider.h
    DONE iconselector.h
    DONE sliderpopup.h
    DONE treeselector.h
    DONE numslider.h

     ----compound:
    DONE filedialog2.h  <- not fully implemented!!!
    DONE filedialog.h
    DONE funcframe.h
    DONE inputdialog.h
    DONE popupmenu.h
    DONE rowframe.h
    DONE tabframe.h
    DONE filepreviewer.h -> fail in Laidout
    DONE imagedialog.h
    DONE overwrite.h
    DONE tooltip.h
    DONE palette.h
    DONE simpleprint.h
    DONE progressbar.h
    DONE scrolledwindow.h
    DONE stackframe.h
    DONE fontdialog.h ->  font to zero size screws up everything, needs more thorough implementation
    DONE splitwindow.h
    DONE shortcutwindow.h
    DONE promptedit.h

    DONE viewerwindow.h
    DONE viewportwindow.h
    DONE viewportwithstack.h
    DONE imageinterface.h  -> non-transparent image, scale kind of big, rotate, fills bounding box with black
    DONE rectinterface.h
    DONE objectinterface.h
    DONE delauneyinterface.h
    DONE curvewindow.h
    DONE curvemapinterface.h
    DONE freehandinterface.h
    DONE patchinterface.h
    DONE pathinterface.h -> viewportwithstack, uses same LineStyle for multiple paths??
    DONE gradientinterface.h
    DONE colorpatchinterface.h
    DONE pressuremapinterface.h
    DONE engraverfillinterface.h -> avoid, blockout not working
    DONE captioninterface.h
    DONE imagepatchinterface.h

    DONE (well, ignored, anyway) deprecated:
      panpopup.h
      quickfileopen.h   <-  abandon in favor of standard LineInput helpers

DONE ~/.recently-used  OR  ~/.recently-used.xbel?? <-- old spec says 1st one, using xbel from now on
DONE update laxinput to have correct repository in readme..
DONE perhaps redo the whole events setup. relying on X atoms leaves quite a lot of residue in the X server..
DONE auto double buffering
